---
layout: post
title: 'Week 2: The Code of Conduct'
---

### Part 1  

In class this week, we read several documents outlining appropriate behaviors when working on an open source project and its community. One of these documents is the Go Project Code of Conduct. It extensively and thoroughly explained the expected behaviors for contributors within its community.<!--more--> Having this Code of Conduct is beneficial for establishing respect among the contributors and creating a conducive learning environment. Other projects would benefit from such a document as well because it will make the community more welcoming such that more programmers would like to contribute to the projects.  


The Go Project Code of Conduct was adapted from the Contributor Covenant with a few changes such as the Scope. The Contributor Covenant applies their Code of Conduct to projects spaces but the Go Project, in addition to applying their document to project spaces, also applies the code outside of project spaces if an individual’s behavior is deemed to negatively impact the project or community. Another change is the extent to which the Go Project discusses contributors resolving conflicts themselves first. I believe the first change was made to protect contributors against harassment that is not within the project space which demonstrates how seriously they take any type of harassment. The second change was made to decrease the amount of complaint emails they receive for petty complaints and to also teach their contributors how to better collaborate with others.  


Another project that has adapted its Code of Conduct from the Contributor Covenant is Eclipse. In contrast to the Go Project, [Eclipse’s Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) establishes disclaimers in the second paragraph of the “Our Pledge” section stating that a person not knowing about the Code of Conduct document does not excuse them from following the code. The tone of the disclaimers makes the code of conduct sound more like a law than a code since laws normally have the same disclaimer. I believe this difference between the Go Project is present because if we explore Eclipse’s website, we can find a page called [Governance](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/) which lists all their policies. These policies are present because Eclipse is a popular project that many programmers utilize, so Eclipse wants to keep their project safe from corruption. The same goes for their community.  

### Part 2  

The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct, which is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, is quite different from the Go Project’s because instead of simply stating behaviors that are appropriate or inappropriate, Sugar Labs gives extensive examples of appropriate behaviors and most of the document outlines expected positive behaviors.  

### Part 3  

FreeCodeCamp offers a very brief [Code of Conduct](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/code-of-conduct) compared to the two templates in Part 1 and 2. Although brief, it shares more similarities to the Part 1 template due to the fact that it mainly only outlines appropriate/inappropriate behaviors and how to report inappropriate ones. Though I believe the Code of Conduct can be more thorough, it is enough to keep behavior such as the one [Shubheksha Jalan](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues/5345) faced in check.  


## Add-on Project Experience  

Before taking this class, I have never created an extension but as a student, I utilize many extensions while studying such as [Unhook](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unhook-remove-youtube-rec/khncfooichmfjbepaaaebmommgaepoid?hl=en) which helps me block distracting YouTube videos. While using this extension, I was curious how it was made and while working on this Add-on project, it is becoming clearer how these extensions are made. Though there were some issues during the Add-on exercise in class, these issues will help me to improve our Add-on project. Overall, it is a fun experience. 
