---
layout: post
title: 'Week 14: The Last Hurrah'
---
This week in class we discussed different types of open source projects that the class chose. Among these, my favorite was open source cola. It’s a very interesting but very valid concept because we as consumers should be able to know the exact ingredients and concentrations that go into our drinks.<!--more--> This concept should be applied to other proprietary companies such as McDonald's. For example, what exactly are the “natural beef flavors” that are in [McDonald’s fries](https://www.mcdonalds.com/us/en-us/product/small-french-fries.html#accordion-c921f9207b-item-283bee7dbd) (If we take this even further, why is there beef flavoring at all in their French fries? But I digress)? So, I think open source food projects are a great initiative to give consumers more peace of mind. 

Concerning Oppia, we have made pull requests for two bugs and are waiting for approval or feedback. We also completed creating our presentation and all that is left is continued rehearsal.  The questions that were posted as a guideline for the presentations were quite thought provoking when we went through them as a group. The most interesting question was the one that asked if we would continue to work on Oppia individually. It was interesting to see the varying responses among the four of us. Some of us never want to touch Oppia again because of the difficulty of browsing the database. Others want to continue working on it because they want to continue supporting Oppia as a humanitarian project. And some of us had a neutral reason of having too little RAM on their computer to run Oppia efficiently. So, I think all these different reasons would lead to a somewhat interesting presentation. 