---
layout: post
title: 'Week 4: The World of Add-Ons'
---

This week, I had the opportunity to not only create an add-on but to also use the add-ons my classmates created.  <!--more-->

While creating our extension, my group genuinely accepted my input and suggestions as I did theirs which created a great workflow. Everyone was cooperative when it came to meeting times, so I found that it was quite the positive experience. When working on the extension, I (as well as my groupmates) was desperate to figure out how to use the tabs API for Mozilla. We would meet up and collectively experiment with tabs functions until we would eventually make a breakthrough in our sessions. Once we figured out the basic functionality, we would make suggestions to better the experience of the add-on. For example, one issue we had was that sometimes a tab's color would be black, so I added a function to make it such that the tabs only generated pastel colors. I also wanted to make contributing as simple as possible for any new contributors so I tried to make the Contributing.md as simple and concise as possible. 

Based off this group experience, I would say that I learned that I enjoy interacting with people more than I thought. When interacting with others, I try not to interrupt them and listen to their full statement and ideas for courtesy, of course, but also simply because I am interested in what people have to say and the ideas they have sizzling in their brains. I think this interest will help me in future group projects in this course. I also gained some familiarity with JavaScript. I’ve never used it before so I found the built-in function names to be quite confusing until I learned JavaScript is used for web development so it would make sense to have functions such as “browser.tabs.onActivated.addListener()”. However, the largest and most obvious skill I learned from this project was learning how to make an extension. I have always wanted to add features to pre-existing websites but I just did not know where to start. Now going forward, I now have this skill under my belt and can go on to make my own, possibly more advanced, extensions. 

Concerning the add-ons of my classmates, it was evident that there were many talented and inspiring individuals in our class. I found Team 6’s [Brightspace Pdf Viewer](https://github.com/ossd-s23/Brightspace_Pdf_Viewer) to be quite useful because I also would get annoyed every time that I wanted to view a full pdf, I would have to download it. However, my absolute favorite extension was Team 4’s  [YouTube Interface Customizer](https://github.com/ossd-s23/YouTube-Customizer). I was especially impressed by how many features their extension offered. My favorite feature was how we can pick a character to replace the progress bar button. This is an extension that I would add to my own browser permanently so I selfishly hope that one day they will publish their extension! 