---
layout: post
title: 'Week 6: Exploring Projects'
---

This week, in preparation for the group projects, we selected two projects that we were interested in. I picked [Exercism](https://exercism.org/) and [SelfControl](https://selfcontrolapp.com/). Exercism is a free programming language education website that is similar to freeCodeCamp, and SelfControl is a Mac app that blocks you from accessing distracting websites for up to 24 hours. SelfControl is an app I use regularly to keep me focused so it was a nice surprise to find out it was open source.<!--more--> Although I like the app and I feel like I could contribute to it, I’m not so sure how well contributing to it will work out in reality since the community is not very active and there is only one maintainer. Also, it could be impossible for some group members to work on this project since it requires that you have a Mac or MacBook. For Exercism, the community seemed very active and welcoming. The only issue with Exercism is that, at this time, they are [pausing contributions](https://exercism.org/blog/freeing-our-maintainers) to the majority of their repositories. Only a few of the repos, such as the java repo, are accepting community contributions as of now. But you can still bring up issues in the chat channel. I also looked at other projects in the project-evaluation repo and Oppia caught my eye. I thought that the Contributing guidelines were very thorough, and I feel like I could possibly contribute a new feature to this project. I’m thinking we could contribute something to the user interface but I’m not sure yet exactly what.  

Regarding contributing, I’m most excited to become an expert in a project. I’m excited to go through the project and understand how the code works and how the app is being deployed. To summarize, I’m looking forward to tinkering with the project. I think the biggest challenges while contributing will be having to set up the virtual environments on my own machine or configuring the project to work with my machine. This is the part of contributing that can be very confusing and it's often the first step. But I believe these problems can be fixed by reaching out to the community and asking for guidance. Another challenge could be projects where people are not officially assigned to issues. This could be a problem because let's say my group has decided to work on a bug in freeCodeCamp, for instance. If we are not officially assigned to the issue, some other GitHub user could make a pull request that solves that issue. This would be an extremely disheartening situation for my group. In order to solve this problem, I think we can explicitly ask that the maintainers keep said issue exclusive to us and officially assign us to it. If not, I think the only other option would be to pick a different project. I would hope this is a situation that will not happen.  
