---
layout: post
title: 'Week 3: A Week of Enrichment'
---

This week was full of enrichment, from the in-class git exercise to the add-on group project. I for one thought I was not too terrible with git. Definitely not the best, but not the worst. However, I was fairly humbled in class with the new information we learned, especially by the 'upstream' portion of class.<!--more--> I did not know that it was even a possibility to pull from two separate repositories on GitHub. I also found the portion concerning merge hell quite informative as well because, believe it or not, I have not encountered a merge hell due to my little experience in git. So, seeing that in order to fix a merge conflict we must manually pick which merges to keep and which to discard encouraged me to avoid such a problem as much as possible and to make commits more often. However, when I do encounter a merge conflict, I now know how to properly handle it. The  knowledge we gained from the in-class activity will be very helpful for the open source projects we will work on during the course of this class. 

 
 

Concerning the group project, it was an overall great experience. Our main challenge was figuring out the correct JavaScript commands and functions to use to access the browser tab properties and simply experimenting with those functions until we found a breakthrough. I would like to credit Jack for discovering how to manipulate the theme of the browser because from there it was smooth sailing. We then ensured that our project was open source by adding additional documents such as the Code of Conduct and the Contributing files. I added the Contributing.md file to help new contributors know how to contribute to our project. I also added a rule of thumb stating that contributors should document their code so that we as the maintainers can clearly understand what their code is doing. Overall, making an open source project ourselves was a great way of teaching us how to identify a good open source project to contribute to in the coming weeks. 

