---
layout: post
title: 'Week 13: Picking Up Speed'
---
This week in class, we discussed the use of open source in business. Initially, I thought “open source” and “business” being in the same sentence was a strange combination since open source is nonproprietary while businesses are almost always proprietary. However, through the lecture it became clearer how open source and businesses can work together. <!--more--> For example, open source projects can provide additional features to their project for an additional fee, or they can create a proprietary version of their project such as what GitHub did with Gitlab. This also seemed to clear some of my confusion on how some of the open source projects owners can make a living off their project. 

Concerning our project, this week we managed to make (not yet approved) 3 bug fixes to our projects. We expressed concern to professor about not being able to make code contributions because we weren’t able to find the code for issues after 45 minutes but professor told us we need to get over the idea that “we can’t find the code” since the code has to be there. This was great advice because once we decided to spend more time on a bug (about 2-3 hours), we were able to actually fix the bug.  

One of our failures and also one of the biggest surprises we had was not being able to contribute to the documentation.  We found that Oppia would not assign us to issues and would fix the issues we pointed out. Granted, the issues were small but we thought it would have been a good opportunity to improve the documentation. Currently, one of our group members suggested that in order to contribute to the documentation, we should make a suggestion that could restructure the entire documentation to make it more easily navigable for users. But as of now, we have not acted on this idea yet. 