---
layout: post
title: 'Week 1: What is Open Source?'
---


Open source. What is it? Well, to me I think of it as the potluck of software development except where the host brings the main dishes and the guests can bring side dishes of their liking to complement the main dishes. Open source is a collective sharing of ideas to improve or enhance an existing project. <!--more--> The practice of open source can be greatly beneficial because having a fresh set of eyes on a project can help the original creators fix issues or bring great improvements. That’s why I decided to take this course: to help creators improve their projects.  

Some projects that come to mind when I hear “open source” are: 

1. **Wikipedia**. Most people have at some point in their lives used Wikipedia to find information for any topic. It was not until high school, however, that I was told that you could edit and contribute to Wikipedia. My response was “Really? Don’t you need to be certified to do such a thing?” but this was not true. Anyone could simply add information to Wikipedia. This was when I finally understood why Wikipedia cannot be used as a cited source in academics. Nonetheless, Wikipedia is a project that I use at least once a week. 

2. **freeCodeCamp**. I was not aware that this website was open source until taking this course, but I’ve used this website intensively in my freshman year of college when I was new to Java. It was a great resource to improve my Java knowledge, especially as a college student where funds can get tight. I greatly appreciated this free resource.

3. **Git**. Git is a version-control system that most developers use or have used in their careers. I’ve used Git for one elective course in the past, but other than that I do not have much experience in Git. This system is an especially useful tool for developers and programmers around the world, so I hope to be more familiar with it by the end of this course in order to better my career in software development. 

4. **MongoDB**. While MongoDB is often criticized for being a key-value database compared to relational databases such as SQL, I quite enjoy the JSON structure of MongoDB and find it to be more straightforward and organized than SQL. Although, I may be biased because I've used MongoDB intensively in previous CS courses so I've grown familiar with the simplicity of MongoDB compared to the table structure of SQL. 

These open source projects have collected many contributions in order to improve the experience and functionality of the projects for users such as myself. However, when there are many contributors to a project, an open source project can become more difficult to handle and organize. Closed source code can be more stable and consistent than open source code since there is only a certain number of people working on the project. Both types of projects have their advantages, it all depends on what a developer is looking for. 
