---
layout: post
title: 'Week 10: Progress'
---
This week, my group and I made a few contributions to Oppia. First we made a PR request to fix a bug. The bug was that a link was not very readable for those who are colorblind because you could only tell it was a link if you hovered over it.<!--more--> So, our group underlined the link and made it bold so that it is easier to read. We also tried to fix another bug yesterday, but we later found out that we could fix it only if we had a Chromebook which none of us had. Currently, we are looking for other issues to tackle. As of now, we found an issue with the search bar and how the text of the search bar is cut off at the end. We haven’t figured out if this is because the text is too big or if the search bar is too small but we believe we can fix this issue. 

Concerning my own contributions, I've managed to make a few on OpenStreetMap and Wikipedia. I also added an NYU professor’s [open-source textbook](https://archive.org/details/introduction-to-psychology-reed) to the Internet Archive. The contribution that I’m most proud of is the [Amharic translation](https://github.com/EthicalSource/contributor_covenant/pull/1245/files) of the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. I was looking through their repository and saw that they have never had an Amharic translation, even going back to the previous versions of their Code of Conduct. Since I'm Ethiopian, I saw this as an opportunity to contribute to their repo. I asked my family to help me proofread and correct the grammar of the translation. I thought this was a fun and collaborate contribution so I hope to see it accepted and merged in the future. 