---
layout: post
title: 'Week 9: Getting Started'
---

This week, we had the opportunity to listen to a talk by [Jim Hall](https://personal.freedos.org), the founder of FreeDOS. He explained that FreeDOS is an MS-DOS environment that can be used to run classic applications. Such as Tomb Raider (1996). I find this type of project similar to the Wayback Machine of the Internet Archive in the way that they both allow you to take a look into the past.<!--more--> I believe FreeDOS is a very useful project and I think what Jim Hall has started is very impressive and commendable since the project is huge in storage. There should be more projects like FreeDOS where we can return to the previous version of software or be able to use the abandoned ones. 

Concerning my group’s project, this week we had issues with installing Oppia. On Monday 3 out of 4 of us managed to get it installed but one of us had a Windows PC and we were struggling on how to install Oppia correctly for that machine. One thing we noticed with the Oppia installation instructions was that there were some very important pieces that were missing for Windows. For instance, the main problem that our group member had was that the instructions didn’t tell whether to install Oppia using Windows or the Linux virtual machine, so because of this she had to restart the installation process. The instructions for Mac with M1 chip were also missing some important instructions so another member of our group had a hard time running Oppia on her machine. However, we see these gaps in the instructions as an opportunity to contribute to the documentation in order to make it clearer. 

We also submitted our [first issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/issues/4923). We saw that on the mobile Oppia app, when creating a profile, the default profile image was a man and it could not be changed to another gender. We thought this was odd because there are definitely women and gender-neutral individuals who are using the app. So, we suggested that they have three options for profile image: male, female, and gender neutral. I feel this is a good start for our contributions. In the near future, we want to tackle a feature request for the website version of Oppia. 