---
layout: post
title: 'Week 7: Project Group Work'
---

This week, we began working on our group projects. Our project is Oppia and all of us agreed that it’s a good project to work on because the community is very welcoming and respectful. Something we felt was very important was that people were officially assigned to issues and people were not making pull requests for issues that were already claimed. We felt this was crucial because this way we can comfortably work on an issue without the fear that someone will solve it for us.

My hopes for this project is that we can add a significant contribution. By significant, I mean a contribution that will be seen on the website. For example, adding a lesson, adding a new feature, or rearranging the website to make it easier to navigate. I believe this will be possible because all of us in the group chose Oppia as our first choice so we’re all fairly interested in the project. We’ve also already explored the project and found a few issues with it already, like a glitch in the lessons and the confusing placement of the subjects search bar. My only worry so far is the installation  process. We had a little issue installing the virtual environment for the project on Macs. For one of our group members, who had Windows, this virtual environment was already available with the operating system. So for the rest of us, we struggled a bit to figure out how to configure the virtual environment. But I believe we can continue to handle the issue of installation as long as we do this step together and ask the community for advice.
