---
layout: post
title: 'Week 11: The Bazaar'
---
This week in class, we thoroughly discussed the essay *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* by Eric S. Raymond. My favorite lesson from this essay was “Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.” I believe this lesson is the one that really encompasses the essence of open source and its benefits because the philosophy of this lesson is very simple: cater to people’s egos. If you give people power, they naturally will want to use it. <!--more--> This philosophy works better compared to one where you are given orders from a company on what to develop. When you're given orders, your motivation to complete those orders will be ruined by the stress of completing tasks you don’t want to do and having no creative input. Thus, treating your users as co-developers can create motivation by giving users creative power. This lesson further deepened my understanding of open source. 

In regard to the group stand up reports, I was most interested in the MAPLE project. I found it interesting that Group 6 is working on a project that is not released yet. I believe that this way, their contributions feel even more important to the project because they are contributing to its very creation, which I think is very unique. Also, since the community for their project is not particularly huge (44 contributors) this gives them the opportunity to get close to the community, make tailored contributions, and be given direction. As I remember from their report, the community gave them an assignment to create a flyer, so it seems the community has a plan for them. 

 Concerning my own group, this week we tried to tackle an [issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17917) that we opened about the search bar placeholder text not being fully shown. However, we did not have enough understanding of the code base yet to find out how to change the size of the search bar since sizing and formatting code spans across dozens of files. So, we decided to leave this issue for someone else for now since we were spending too much time on it and went on to report a [bug](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17973) we found in the preferences settings where one of the search features did not work. For the next three weeks, we hope to contribute to the documentation and to tackle a “feature request” issue for Oppia. 