---
layout: post
title: 'Week 5: Opening Open Source'
---

This week, we had the opportunity to attend a talk by [Mek Karpeles](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mekarpeles/) from [Open Library](https://openlibrary.org/). I genuinely enjoyed the talk and Open Library's mission to make books more accessible to all. Though he is not a lawyer, I believe he addressed the legality questions that students had quite well. <!--more--> He explained that Open Library is like any other library in that once a copy of a book is “off the shelf”, no one else can borrow it until it is back on the shelf. He explained how what Open Library is doing is nothing phenomenal, but I beg to differ. Just the amount of effort the Open Library community is making to make books more accessible is something phenomenal and commendable in itself because there are so many disadvantaged individuals around the world and here in America. In addition, I also enjoyed how welcoming the Open Library community seems and how they give detailed instructions on how to get started. I'm quite interested in contributing to this project. 

Concerning my own contributions, I’ve made contributions to the course website, students' blogs, Wikipedia, OpenStreetMap, and the in-house add-on projects. So, I think my flow of contributing is going well. I’d say the biggest challenges when contributing are finding things to contribute to and deciding on what type of contributions to make. Now, I don’t believe it’s hard to find a project to contribute to. I think it's actually quite easy. But the challenge comes down to “what issue in that project can you handle?” because you might not have enough skills to contribute to that project. So, because of this, I found myself leaning towards contributing to in-house projects more than projects on the web. This first challenge blends into the second challenge of deciding on what contributions to make. Should I go big or go home? Is this contribution too small? Code contribution or Documentation? Or both? This wasn’t an inhibiting challenge whatsoever and it didn’t stop me from making contributions. It was just that for an overthinker like myself, I couldn’t help but ponder these questions. However, the more I contribute, the easier I find these challenges to be as I become more comfortable with the habit of contributing.  

So far, the contribution I'm most proud of is the [random color option](https://github.com/ossd-s23/TabColor/pull/11) I added to Team 8’s [TabColor](https://github.com/ossd-s23/TabColor) add-on. My own group’s add-on, [Hype Tabs](https://github.com/ossd-s23/Hype-Tabs), created a similar extension except the current tab color changes every time you switch tabs. Since our projects are so similar, I thought “hey, why not give them a random color option?” and that’s what I did. This contribution has been merged into the TabColor project so it can be used right now. I think this contribution is a fun addition to their project. 
